Question 5.4.12. Question 12. Sketching Graphs.
A manufacturing firm uses the following model for their monthly profit: P equals
9.4q - 0.02q squared - 420 where P is the profit and q
is the number of items produced that month. How many items a month
should the firm produce in order to maximize the profit?
This is a downward-opening parabola. The maximum is at the vertex.
For P equals negative 0.02q squared plus 9.4q - 420.
the vertex is at q equals -b over 2a.
q equals negative 9.4 over 2(-0.02) equals 9.4 over 0.04 equals 235
P(235) equals 9.4(235) - 0.02(235)^2 - 420 equals
2209 - 1104.5 - 420 equals 684.50
Produce 235 items per month. Maximum profit equals \$684.50
IB exam tip: Real-world optimization: identify it as a
quadratic. find the vertex. The vertex formula x equals
-b over 2a is on the formula sheet.